----------------------------------------------------------------------
RUNNING DESCENT WITH THE SIMULEYES VR (TM) STEREOSCOPIC VIEWING SYSTEM
----------------------------------------------------------------------

by Robert Akka
12/7/95

Contents
--------
A. Introduction
B. Running Descent With SimulEyes VR
C. Resolution Modes
D. Refresh Modes
E. Improving Performance
F. PC Operating Systems
G. Stereoscopic Adjustments
H. Other Keyboard Functions
I. Customer Service for the SimulEyes VR Hardware


A. Introduction
---------------

This text provides information and documentation that is
specific to use of Descent with the StereoGraphics (R) SimulEyes VR
stereoscopic viewing system.

For information about upgrading a full version of Descent which
would also support SimulEyes VR, please see the text file,
ORDERFRM.TXT. When ordering an upgrade to Descent, be sure to
specify that you want a version that includes support for the
StereoGraphics SimulEyes VR stereoscopic viewing system.


B. Running Descent With SimulEyes VR
------------------------------------

To run Descent with SimulEyes VR, you must launch Descent from the
stereoscopic driver, LCDBios. The easiest way to do this is to type
the following batch command:

  STEREO

which is equivalent to the following command line (capitalization
does not matter for any command names or command options):

  LCDBIOS /LCDRUN:DESCENT /LCDBIOS /SIMULEYES

The above command line calls the stereoscopic driver, which then
calls Descent, notifying Descent to use LCDBios functionality, and
SimulEyes VR stereo support. If you want to use other Descent
command line options, you may place such options after "STEREO".
For example, to run Descent with SimulEyes VR, with Descent's music
toggled off, you could type:

  STEREO /NOMUSIC

Or, you could may edit the "STEREO.BAT" batch file to read:

  LCDBIOS /LCDRUN:DESCENT /LCDBIOS /SIMULEYES /NOMUSIC %1 %2 %3 %4

(The "%1 %2 %3 %4" allows up to four command line options to be
passed from the batch file command line to the application.)


An additional batch file is provided for running Descent with
SimulEyes VR, in low-resolution mode:

  STEREOLO

This runs Descent at a lower resolution, to improve redraw
performance (see "Resolution modes" below). This batch command is
equivalent to the following command line:

  LCDBIOS /LCDRUN:DESCENT /LCDBIOS /SIMULEYES /320x200


LCDBIOS may be activated to run at a higher than normal sync rate.
See "Refresh modes" below for details about this.




C. Resolution Modes
-------------------

You can run Descent with SimulEyes VR at any of three display
resolutions:

  320x400 (320x200 per eye view): This is the default resolution
      when running Descent with the "/simuleyes" command line option,
      or using the "STEREO" batch command.

  320x200 (320x100 per eye view): This will improve performance,
      particularly on PCs that use slower 486 processors. To select
      this option, use the command line option "/320x200" following
      the "/simuleyes" command line option. This resolution option
      is activated using the batch command "STEREOLO" (see "Running
      Descent With SimulEyes VR" above).

  320x100 (320x50 per eye view): This resolution is extremely coarse,
      and is generally not recommended. To select this option, use
      the command line option "/320x100" following the "/simuleyes"
      command line option.

Other resolution modes that work with Descent non-stereoscopically
are not supported in the SimulEyes VR stereo implementation.


D. Refresh Modes
----------------

When running SimulEyes VR with Descent, the display refreshes at a
rate of 70 Hz. On some systems, you can run Descent with SimulEyes VR
at the faster refresh rate of 80 Hz. To do this, insert the command
line option "/HREFRESH" just after "LCDBIOS" in the command line. For
example, you might edit STEREO.BAT to read:

  LCDBIOS /HREFRESH /LCDRUN:DESCENT /LCDBIOS /SIMULEYES %1 %2 %3 %4

On some computer systems, this higher refresh rate does not work as
cleanly as the more standard 70 Hz, so try it using the "/HREFRESH"
command line option, and if that doesn't work as well, go back to
using the default 70 Hz refresh.

Note that this will not speed up animation rendering or alter the
pacing of the game. The only difference will be a slight reduction
of flicker effect when using the SimulEyes VR stereoscopic eyewear.



E. Improving Performance
------------------------

Stereoscopic rendering is somewhat more demanding of your computer's
processor than regular non-stereo game rendering would be. If you are
running Descent on something slower than a Pentium processor, there
are several things that you can do to improve game performance:

  Reducing display resolution will speed up redraws significantly.
      See the "Resolution modes" section above for details on how set
      the command line option to do this.

  Turning off Descent's background music will improve game redraw
      speed. To do this, run Descent using the "-nomusic" command
      line option. If you use the "-nosound" command line option,
      this will disable both background music and sound effects,
      resulting in further performance gains.

  Running Descent at a lower detail level will improve performance,
      at the expense of texture quality. To change detail levels,
      press <F2> during the game, and select "Detail Levels...".

  When running Descent under Windows 95, performance will be improved
      by running Descent in "MS-DOS mode" (see "PC operating systems"
      section below).



F. PC Operating Systems
-----------------------

Descent, as modified to be used with SimulEyes VR stereoscopic
glasses, is best used with Microsoft MS-DOS, versions 5.0 or later.

Running Descent with SimulEyes VR under Windows 3.x is not
recommended; exit Windows and run Descent under DOS.

Under Windows 95, Descent with SimulEyes VR will generally perform
best when run in "MS-DOS mode." There are two ways to do this:

  1) Select "Shut Down" from the "Start" menu, and then select
      "Restart the computer in MS-DOS mode." Then change to the
      directory in which Descent is loaded, and run it from the
      command line. To return to Windows 95 when done, type "EXIT"
      at the command line.

  2) Right-click the icon representing the batch file that activates
      Descent with SimulEyes VR, and select "Properties." Then select
      the "Program" properties sheet from this dialog box, and click
      "Advanced." Click the box for "MS-DOS Mode," and then exit the
      dialog box by pressing two successive "OK" buttons.

In a few cases, Descent with SimulEyes VR may run better under
Windows 95 if you do not run it in "MS-DOS" mode, so it is a good
idea to try both and decide which works better. In some cases,
depending on the configuration, Descent with SimulEyes VR may not
work with Windows 95 at all.
         
Descent with SimulEyes VR will not work properly under Windows NT.


G. Stereoscopic Adjustments
---------------------------

The stereoscopic viewing settings used by Descent have been carefully
selected to provide stereoscopic viewing that is both visually
exciting and comfortable to view for extended periods. However, some
users may want to play with or fine-tune the stereoscopic settings.
Note that the following stereoscopic adjustments will work as
described only when Descent is run using the "/simuleyes" command
line option and SimulEyes VR stereoscopic eyewear.

  <shift>-F1: Shifts the stereoscopic scene more towards "negative
      parallax," meaning that things will appear to come out of the
      screen more, and go into the screen less; the overall depth
      of the scene remains unchanged.

  <shift>-F2: Shifts the stereoscopic scene more towards "positive
      parallax," meaning that things will appear to go into the
      screen more, and come out of the screen less; the overall depth
      of the scene remains unchanged.

  <shift>-F3: Decreases the stereoscopic camera separation, thus
      decreasing the overall depth effect; parallax balance remains
      unchanged.

  <shift>-F4: Increases the stereoscopic camera separation, thus
      increasing the overall depth effect; parallax balance remains
      unchanged.

  <shift>-F5: Resets stereoscopic parameters to default values.




H. Other Keyboard Functions
---------------------------

The following special keyboard functions work only when running
Descent with SimulEyes VR:

  <shift>-F6: Resets the stereoscopic display buffers.

  <shift>-<enter>: Toggles on-screen text information.


The following Descent keyboard functions are disabled when running
Descent with SimulEyes VR:

  Normally, pressing the <enter> key toggles on-screen text
      information. When playing Descent with SimulEyes VR, this
      function is applied using <shift>-<enter>.

  Descent's print-screen function is disabled when in the SimulEyes
      VR stereoscopic mode.

  The cockpit view feature, normally toggled using the <F3> key, is
      not supported when using Descent's stereoscopic modes.

  Descent's change screen size functions, normally toggled using the
      <+> and <-> keys, are not supported when using Descent's
      stereoscopic modes.

  Note that the "Reverse Stereo" option, which appears on the <F2>
      menu, relates to stereo audio, not stereoscopic display
      functions.



I. Customer Service for the SimulEyes VR.
-----------------------------------------

Tech Support Number - 
     812-829-1012 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Monday-Friday

Company Address

StereoGraphics Corporation
2171 E. Francisco Blvd., San Rafael, CA 94901

WebSite:  http://www.stereographics.com



Stereoscopic modifications allowing Descent to support SimulEyes VR
were made by Bob Akka and Dave Milici. 

"StereoGraphics" is a registered trademark and "SimulEyes VR" is a
trademark of StereoGraphics Corporation. "Descent" is a trademark of
Interplay Productions. LCDBios is a Copyright of Don Sawdai.
"Microsoft," "Windows," "Windows NT," and "MS-DOS" are registered
trademarks, and "Windows 95" is a registered trademark of Microsoft
Corporation. "Pentium" is a registered trademark of Intel. All other
trademarks belong to their respective companies.

