Notes for SIMBIOS v1.27

SIMBIOS.EXE is a replacement for LCDBIOS.EXE with SimulEyes glasses.
Unlike the real-mode LCDBIOS application shell, SIMBIOS is a DOS/4G
protected-mode application shell compatible with DOS/4GW, DOS/4GW-Pro
and other DPMI programs. Having the driver in protected-mode
means more efficient interrupt handling by the overall application,
since there is no need to be switching back and forth to real-mode.
This improved driver efficiency is apparent with the operation of
additional user input devices, like SpaceBall.

-----------------------------
Automatic Page-flipping mode:
-----------------------------

SIMBIOS v1.27 includes a command line option for forcing stereo
page-flipping modes on automatically in non-LCDBIOS stereo applications.
Some games which have stereo display modes supported for head-mounted
display (HMD) devices like Virtual-IO iglasses, may not have included
stereo page-flipping modes for shutter glasses like SimulEyes.

These HMD-supported games display stereo in alternate-line format,
so may be tricked into LCDBIOS-compatible stereo page-flipping mode
by running under the SIMBIOS shell with the "/autoflip" option.
Since such games have no prior shutter glasses support, you would also
have to run SIMBIOS with the "/whitecode" option for drawing SimulEyes
white-line code.

Because stereo page-flipping is forced on whenever a graphics mode is
set, you might not be able to see all menu items clearly at all times.
Therefore it is advisable that you understand in advance where key
commands are for setting HMD stereo display on or off. Also, if a set
display mode is identified as VGA instead of VESA, like 320x200, then
stereo page-flipping is not turned on, and the display remains unaffected.

To force stereo page-flipping display modes on in Quake v1.08:
SIMBIOS /autoflip /whitecode /run:QUAKE

While running Quake, LCD_X and LCD_YAW commands set parallax offset and
convergance angle of the stereoscopic display.

Note that only VESA graphics modes will be able to correctly intercept
the application's video page updates, not VGA Mode-X modes. Make sure
your graphics card supports VESA 2.0 BIOS or later, or use the UNIVBE
driver kit from SciTech Software. Also, not all graphics controllers are
able to support line-doubled display modes, which is necessary for this
LCDBIOS-style hack to work with alternate-line format stereo images.
Of course, if no such stereo support is built-in to the application at
all, then there is no point in trying this!
      
-----------------------
White-line Code option:
-----------------------

SIMBIOS v1.26 features an additional command line option for
drawing SimulEyes white-line code in generic LCDBIOS applications.
Some LCDBIOS applications may not have included SimulEyes support,
so the stereo images are missing SimulEyes white-line code for
firing the glasses' shutters.

When SIMBIOS is run with the command line option "/whitecode",
the SIMBIOS driver will draw SimulEyes white-code at the bottom of each 
currently page-flipped left and right images.

----------------------
Variable Refresh Rate:
----------------------

This version features variable refresh rate for 320x200 modes used
in LCDBIOS games like Descent. The variable refresh rate control is
effective by using SciTech Software's UNIVBE driver and associated
refresh utilities. Contact www.scitechsoft.com for downloading a
trial version of UNIVBE included in the SciTech Display Doctor kit.

Normally 320x200 VGA modes use 70 Hz refresh rate to update
the monitor display. This is the same rate which the SimulEyes
shutters open and close, and can show noticeable flicker. The generic
LCDBIOS driver includes an /HRefresh option to boost the VGA rate
to nearly 80 Hz, which is preferred for SimulEyes viewing.
SciTech's UNIVBE driver provides even higher refresh rates for many
graphics cards, which will allow the most comfortable viewing
environment for SimulEyes.

Once you have UNIVBE installed for your particular graphics card,
run the Monitor Refresh Rate utility (UNICENTR.EXE in DOS mode).
Imprortant note: You will need to select *640x400 8-bit color* mode
to select the appropriate refresh rate used for 320x200 VGA modes
used in the LCDBIOS games. Once you have found the highest refresh
rate which your monitor can correctly display, be sure the UNIVBE
driver saves this value. When SIMBIOS is run, it will use this
refresh rate whenever the stereo page-flipping mode is enabled within
the game. 

-------------------
Command line usage:
-------------------

SIMBIOS is run like LCDBIOS, either as a command shell, or as a single
executable.

To run SIMBIOS as a command shell, use this sequence:
(1) SIMBIOS
(2) DESCENT2 [/game-options...]
...
(3) EXIT

To run SIMBIOS as an executable for a single LCDBIOS game:
SIMBIOS /run:DESCENT2 [/game-options...]

For Descent 1.5, remember to use the LCDBIOS command line options:
SIMBIOS /run:DESCENT /lcdbios /simuleyes [/game-options...]


StereoGraphics SimulEyes Support is available at:
se-supt@crystaleye.com
www.stereographics.com

SciTech Software Display Doctor is available at:
www.scitechsoft.com

